---
layout: post
title:  "Ansible Playbook"
date:   2019-09-20 22:00:00 -0800
categories: Blog
---


Hi Everyone,
	
This week for CIT 480 we were tasked with creating two Ansible playbook files. The first playbook was required to install 
traceroute, create two new groups, create users for each group, and lastly set permission for both groups. The second 
playbook was required to install a lamp environment and the affinity app. Being that I had never head of Ansible I knew 
I was in for a good learning experience.
	
  Like with all projects I began with a simple google search then next thing you know I have about fifteen tabs open on 
  my web browser with now Idea in hell on what to exactly do. After a few minutes of back and forth between webpage 
  tutorials and youtube videos I started to understand what exactly Ansible playbook was all about. It is a simple, 
  yet complex file written in YML that can be used to configure multiple systems with a simple command and a press of 
  the enter key. 
	
  Now that I was aware about what exactly an Ansible playbook the next question was, “What’s the structure and the syntax?”. 
  Once again, I found myself overloading on the numerous amounts tutorials and videos that were available online. Eventually 
  stumbling on a webpage where I began to understand the process and structure. Ansible files are easy to structure once you
  start to understand how commands are written out. 
 	
  At the top you specify the target hosts and then right underneath you start to list the task you want to complete. Ansible
  playbooks use what are called modules to specify the commands that the playbooks should run. You would normally run an 
  apache install by typing out, “apt-get install apache2”. In Ansible the apt-get command, and any other command you can 
  think of, has a corresponding module. For apt-get that module is apt.
	
  Moving on for most modules the module (command) type is superseded by a name field which is more of a comment that explains 
  what that portion of the task with do as seen above I gave the task a name of “Install Apache2”. Second you specify the 
  module (command) that you want to call in our case the “apt” module is the ansible equivalent of “apt-get”. Below that the 
  name of the software package to be installed should be specified, in my example i specified “apache2”. Then the state is set
  to latest for the latest version. For the apt module you have to specify that you want to run a apt-get so you set the 
  force_apt_get to yes. Lastly I set the cache to be updated. Below is the sample:
	
  - hosts: localhost
  remote_user: root
  tasks:
  	- name: install apache2
	  apt:
	     name: apache2
	     state: latest
	     force_apt_get: yes
	     update_cache: yes
             
Ultimately, having to work on an Ansible playbook was not a daunting as I originally thought it would be. Yes, there is a new 
syntaxt that need to be learned but that’s nothing when you think about the knowledge that is gained in the process.



